Add `Introducing Teams` news post (#12875)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-02-27-introducing-teams.md

---
layout: post
title: Introducing Teams
date: 2025-02-27 12:00:00 +0000
---

These are not "clans", they're not "subdivisions", nor are they "guilds" — they are **teams**! And they're here to stay.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/banner.jpg)

> It's time for a [15-year-old feature request](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/29780) to see reality. This feature which was once requested by [[Sean]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/202721) exactly 14 years, 9 months and 10 days ago, ended up amassing a total priority of **+11.744** over the years. An idea which was widely supported by the community up to this day has finally come into fruition!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's time for a [15-year-old feature request](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/29780) to see reality. This feature which was once requested by [[Sean]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/202721) exactly 14 years, 9 months and 10 days ago, ended up amassing a total priority of **+11,744** over the years. An idea which was widely supported by the community up to this day has finally come into fruition!
```

## What's new

The [last osu!(lazer) update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2025-02-20-osulazer-updates-february-20-2025) introduced a new "Teams" feature. This is a new way for the community to express shared interests and proudly display groups they are part of.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/team-banner.jpg)

Teams are shown besides usernames in places like user profiles, leaderboards, and forums. Each team gets a flag and name to display everywhere, a unique acronym to go along with it, a banner and description, and their own internal leaderboard.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/team-display.png)

Users can interact with all of these features by going to the ["My Team"](https://osu.ppy.sh/teams) page at any time. Players not yet in a team will be given the option to create one. Alternatively, by going to the page of an existing team, users will be able to apply to any team they see fit!

### Features

While the feature is still in its infancy, there are plenty of things users can already do with teams:

- Create and join other users' teams.
- Manage incoming applications.
- Compete with your peers in the team's leaderboard.

> - Proudly display your allegiance with a team flag and unique acronym!

Reviewer: Chat channel has now been deployed, so that can be mentioned here.

You can expect to see more features in the future as the system is refined, such as displaying team leaderboards in osu!(lazer) or team versus team matches.

### Limitations

Despite the many features already introduced from the get-go, there are still some limitations to keep in mind:

- Team acronyms are unique.

> - Both team acronyms and names are permanent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both team acronyms and names are permanent (contact [support](accounts@ppy.sh) or re-create your team if you make a mistake!).
```

Author: Was mentioned in line 52 to get both the bulletpoints above and below addressed all at once. Will add this as I imagine these are the most commonly asked for changes however.

- Team leaders cannot be swapped.
- The maximum team size is dependent on the amount of [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter) on the team.

>   - Each supporter will add 4 slots to the base team size of 8, up to a cap of 256.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is a "limitation" as such. I guess it's fine to list here but it's not goign to change.

Reviewer 2: Even if it's something that isn't going to change, that is indeed a limitation worth noting.

Reviewer: Then the sentence above needs to change in line with this. It reads wrong as it stands.

Author: Hmm, I guess you are afraid people may take the comment below as to recommend switching the teams' max size. Can make it very clear it is not going to change then.

> - Currently, the web does not dispose of a listing with all available teams in the platform.

Reviewer: Again, dunno about listing this here. Maybe it makes more sense to add a section called "Future features" and list things like team listing and leaderboards as such features.

Author: That's cool. Can be done. Originally didn't want to split it between current, limitations, and future features (even if the latter two were then joined) as I wasn't aware what could be "promised" or not. Will do.

  - This also applies to the [osu!api (v2)](https://osu.ppy.sh/docs/index.html) which does not have an endpoint for teams.

Some of these limitations may be lifted as the system is iterated upon, a lot of which may depend on the community's feedback. Don't be afraid to propose and discuss changes in the [osu!web GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues?q=is:issue%20state:open%20teams%20label:area:team)!

In the meantime, if team leaders wish to change their team's name, acronym, or even the leader itself, they may do so by contacting the [account support team](/wiki/People/Account_support_team) via [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh).

## Stats

> It's hard to put into perspective how much the community has grown to love teams ever since their release despite their recency. So why not put it into numbers instead! [MegaMix](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/18152711) has taken the time to compile an [unofficial team list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1z0ddlo3EudoNJdEssrm3tMQYOQY7YQEdXWhMN7JV2TM?rm=minimal).

Reviewer: Nah. Fuck this shit off.

Author: Roger. One of the main reasons I wanted you to check as I was already miffed at the fact these were scraped. Will use the listed stats below, thanks for listing them!

Here are some of the most noteworthy stats:

> - Around **6780~ teams** were made during the first 7 days. Close to 1000 teams per day!

Reviewer: If you want stats, please ask me for stats. I don't trust any of these.

Reviewer: | date | teams\_created |
| :--- | :--- |
| 2024-12-13 | 1 |
| 2025-02-20 | 2495 |
| 2025-02-21 | 1861 |
| 2025-02-22 | 961 |
| 2025-02-23 | 634 |
| 2025-02-24 | 467 |
| 2025-02-25 | 426 |
| 2025-02-26 | 330 |
| 2025-02-27 | 74 |

| team\_id | team\_name | member\_count |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 14 | yuri | 256 |
| 39 | The Roundtable | 235 |
| 6 | Ayachi Nene Shrine | 171 |
| 272 | AIM | 168 |
| 3518 | The Cardboard Box | 144 |
| 278 | Furry | 133 |
| 91 | 1337 | 127 |

single member teams: 2743

---
layout: post
title: Introducing Teams
date: 2025-02-27 12:00:00 +0000
---

These are not "clans", they're not "subdivisions", nor are they "guilds" — they are **teams**! And they're here to stay.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/banner.jpg)

> It's time for a [15-year-old feature request](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/29780) to see reality. This feature which was once requested by [[Sean]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/202721) exactly 14 years, 9 months and 10 days ago, ended up amassing a total priority of **+11,744** over the years. An idea which was widely supported by the community up to this day has finally come into fruition!

Reviewer 3: would be +8 days if we counted from today

```suggestion
It's time for a [15-year-old feature request](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/29780) to see reality. This feature which was once requested by [[Sean]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/202721) 14 years, 9 months and 10 days before it would be implemented, ended up amassing a total star priority of **+11,744** over the years. An idea which was widely supported by the community up to this day has finally come into fruition!
```

Despite how many years have passed since the inception of the idea, the core goals of the feature remain the same: to grow and nurture osu!'s many, scattered sub-communities. Users can find new ways to engage with other like-minded members with many of the new features to come. We always knew this was a community game, but this feature will make this aspect ever so slightly more prevalent!

## What's new

> The [last osu!(lazer) update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2025-02-20-osulazer-updates-february-20-2025) introduced a new "Teams" feature. This is a new way for the community to express shared interests and proudly display groups they are part of.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [last osu!(lazer) update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2025-02-20-osulazer-updates-february-20-2025) introduced a new "teams" feature. This is a new way for the community to express shared interests and proudly display groups they are part of.
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/team-banner.jpg)

Teams are shown beside usernames in places like user profiles, leaderboards, and forums. Each team gets a flag and name to display everywhere, a unique acronym to go along with it, a banner and description, and their own internal leaderboard.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/team-display.png)

> Users can interact with all of these features by going to the ["My Team"](https://osu.ppy.sh/teams) page at any time. Players not yet in a team will be given the option to create one. Alternatively, by going to the page of an existing team, users will be able to apply to any team they see fit!

Author: Would've expected to redirect to either a user's current team or to the create page. Changed to `https://osu.ppy.sh/teams/create`

### Current features

While the feature is still in its infancy, there are plenty of things users can already do with teams:

- Create and join other users' teams.
- Manage incoming applications.

> - Compete with your peers in the team's leaderboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Compete with your peers on the team's leaderboard.
```

> - Communicate with your team in a private chatroom.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Communicate with your team in a private chat room.
```

- Proudly display your allegiance with a team flag and unique acronym!

### Upcoming features

You can expect to see more features in the future as the system is refined. While there may be more to come, these are a few of the things to look forward to:

- A listing on the website with all available teams in the platform.
- Displaying team leaderboards in osu!(lazer).
- [osu!api (v2)](https://osu.ppy.sh/docs/index.html) support for teams.

### Limitations

- Team acronyms are unique.

> - Both team acronyms and names are permanent (contact [support](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh) or re-create your team if you make a mistake!).

Reviewer 3: doesn't need dash

```suggestion
- Both team acronyms and names are permanent (contact [support](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh) or recreate your team if you make a mistake!).
```

- Team leaders cannot be swapped.
- The maximum team size is dependent on the amount of [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter) on the team.
  - Each supporter will add 4 slots to the base team size of 8, up to a cap of 256.
- Users can only join one team at a time.
  - To join another team, you may do so at any time by leaving your current one.

Some of these limitations may be lifted as the system is iterated upon, a lot of which may depend on the community's feedback. Don't be afraid to propose and discuss changes in the [osu!web GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues?q=is:issue%20state:open%20teams%20label:area:team)!

> 
> In the meantime, if team leaders wish to change their team's name, acronym, or even the leader itself, they may do so by contacting the [account support team](/wiki/People/Account_support_team) via [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh).

Reviewer 3: already mentioned

```suggestion
```

## Stats

> It's hard to put into perspective how much the community has grown to love teams ever since their release despite their recency. So why not put it into numbers instead!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's hard to put into perspective how much the community has grown to love teams ever since their release, despite their recency. Let's see if numbers will help with that!
```

Here are some of the most noteworthy stats:

> - **7249 teams** were made during the first 7 days. Close to 1000 teams per day!
> - Currently, only one team has reached the maximum team size of **256 members**, that being [yuri](https://osu.ppy.sh/teams/14) with a team ID of 14.
> - **2743 teams** only have their creators as members. Show these users some love by joining their teams!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **7,249 teams** were made during the first 7 days. Close to 1,000 teams per day!
- Currently, only one team has reached the maximum team size of **256 members**, that being [yuri](https://osu.ppy.sh/teams/14) with a team ID of 14.
- **2,743 teams** only have one member, i.e. the creator. You can show these users some love by joining their teams!
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/team-display.png)

Users can interact with all of these features by going to the ["My Team"](https://osu.ppy.sh/teams) page at any time. Players not yet in a team will be given the option to create one. Alternatively, by going to the page of an existing team, users will be able to apply to any team they see fit!

### Current features

While the feature is still in its infancy, there are plenty of things users can already do with teams:

- Create and join other users' teams.
- Manage incoming applications.
- Compete with your peers in the team's leaderboard.
- Communicate with your team in a private chatroom.
- Proudly display your allegiance with a team flag and unique acronym!

### Upcoming features

You can expect to see more features in the future as the system is refined. While there may be more to come, these are a few of the things to look forward to:

- A listing on the website with all available teams in the platform.
- Displaying team leaderboards in osu!(lazer).

> - An endpoint for teams in the [osu!api (v2)](https://osu.ppy.sh/docs/index.html).

Reviewer: Not sure it's just one endpoint, so best to just leave it as "API support for teams"

### Limitations

> Despite the many features already introduced from the get-go, there are still some limitations to keep in mind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite the many features already introduced from the get-go, there are still some limitations to keep in mind:
```

just remove this... it still doesn't work for me.

- Team acronyms are unique.
- Both team acronyms and names are permanent (contact [support](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh) or re-create your team if you make a mistake!).
- Team leaders cannot be swapped.
- The maximum team size is dependent on the amount of [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter) on the team.
  - Each supporter will add 4 slots to the base team size of 8, up to a cap of 256.

>   - This cap will **not** be increased in the future.

Reviewer: no need to mention this. it might increase, we'll see.

- Users can only join one team at a time.
  - To join another team, you may do so at any time by leaving your current one.

Some of these limitations may be lifted as the system is iterated upon, a lot of which may depend on the community's feedback. Don't be afraid to propose and discuss changes in the [osu!web GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-web/issues?q=is:issue%20state:open%20teams%20label:area:team)!

In the meantime, if team leaders wish to change their team's name, acronym, or even the leader itself, they may do so by contacting the [account support team](/wiki/People/Account_support_team) via [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh).

## Stats

It's hard to put into perspective how much the community has grown to love teams ever since their release despite their recency. So why not put it into numbers instead!

Here are some of the most noteworthy stats:

> - Around **7249~ teams** were made during the first 7 days. Close to 1000 teams per day!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **7249 teams** were made during the first 7 days. Close to 1000 teams per day!
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/banner.jpg)

It's time for a [15-year-old feature request](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/29780) to see reality. This feature which was once requested by [[Sean]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/202721) exactly 14 years, 9 months and 10 days ago, ended up amassing a total priority of **+11,744** over the years. An idea which was widely supported by the community up to this day has finally come into fruition!

Despite how many years have passed since the inception of the idea, the core goals of the feature remain the same: to grow and nurture osu!'s many, scattered sub-communities. Users can find new ways to engage with other like-minded members with many of the new features to come. We always knew this was a community game, but this feature will make this aspect ever so slightly more prevalent!

## What's new

The [last osu!(lazer) update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2025-02-20-osulazer-updates-february-20-2025) introduced a new "Teams" feature. This is a new way for the community to express shared interests and proudly display groups they are part of.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-02-27-introducing-teams/team-banner.jpg)

> Teams are shown besides usernames in places like user profiles, leaderboards, and forums. Each team gets a flag and name to display everywhere, a unique acronym to go along with it, a banner and description, and their own internal leaderboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teams are shown beside usernames in places like user profiles, leaderboards, and forums. Each team gets a flag and name to display everywhere, a unique acronym to go along with it, a banner and description, and their own internal leaderboard.
```
